1. Title of Database: Abalone data

2. Sources:

   (a) Original owners of database:
	Marine Resources Division
	Marine Research Laboratories - Taroona
	Department of Primary Industry and Fisheries, Tasmania
	GPO Box 619F, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia
	(contact: Warwick Nash +61 02 277277, wnash@dpi.tas.gov.au)

   (b) Donor of database:
	Sam Waugh (Sam.Waugh@cs.utas.edu.au)
	Department of Computer Science, University of Tasmania
	GPO Box 252C, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia

   (c) Date received: December 1995

4. Relevant Information Paragraph:

   Predicting the age of abalone from physical measurements.  The age of
   abalone is determined by cutting the shell through the cone, staining it,
   and counting the number of rings through a microscope -- a boring and
   time-consuming task.  Other measurements, which are easier to obtain, are
   used to predict the age.  Further information, such as weather patterns
   and location (hence food availability) may be required to solve the problem.

   From the original data examples with missing values were removed (the
   majority having the predicted value missing), and the ranges of the
   continuous values have been scaled by dividing by 200.

   Data comes from an original (non-machine-learning) study:

	Warwick J Nash, Tracy L Sellers, Simon R Talbot, Andrew J Cawthorn and
	Wes B Ford (1994) "The Population Biology of Abalone (_Haliotis_
	species) in Tasmania. I. Blacklip Abalone (_H. rubra_) from the North
	Coast and Islands of Bass Strait", Sea Fisheries Division, Technical
	Report No. 48 (ISSN 1034-3288)

6. Number of Attributes: 8


7. Attribute information:

   Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit and a
   brief description.  The number of rings is the value to predict: either
   as a continuous value or as a classification problem.



Name		Data Type	Meas.	Description
----		---------	-----	-----------
	
Sex		nominal			M, F, and I (infant)
	
Length		continuous	mm	Longest shell measurement

Diameter	continuous	mm	perpendicular to length

Height		continuous	mm	with meat in shell
	
Whole weight	continuous	grams	whole abalone
	
Shucked weight	continuous	grams	weight of meat
	
Viscera weight	continuous	grams	gut weight (after bleeding)
	
Shell weight	continuous	grams	after being dried
	
Rings		integer			+1.5 gives the age in years
